# Public Key Cryptography

In this activity, you'll 
- Review the structure of asymmetric algorithms
- Study hybrid cryptosystems, which use symmetric and asymmetric algorithms together
- Research TLS, a common and crucial application of hybrid cryptosystems

## Instructions

- Alice wants to use her private key to decrypt a message from Bob. Draw a diagram describing this scenario.
  - **Solution**: Refer to: <https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/f9/Public_key_encryption.svg/250px-Public_key_encryption.svg.png>

Recall that symmetric key algorithms are fast, but that exchanging the secret key is difficult to do securely. Asymmetric algorithms can be used to solve this problem.

- Suppose Bob wants to send Alice a message encrypted with AES using a secret key. In order to decrypt it, Bob must send the secret key first.
  - How might Bob use his public key to send Alice his (symmetric) secret key? Draw a diagram depicting this scenario.
    - **Solution**: The diagram would be the same as the above—Bob just encrypts his secret key as the message!
  - How does Bob get the original message (the one encrypted with AES) to Alice?
    - **Solution**: As with any other message: He encrypts the original message with his public key, and sends it to Alice.
  - How does Alice decrypt the original message?
    - **Solution**
      - First, she decrypts the secret key with her private key.
      - Then, she decrypts the second message, encrypted with Bob's public key, with her private key, revealing the original message, which was _also_ encrypted, but with AES.
      - Finally, she decrypts the original message with the secret key.

## Extension

- Read the article on TLS/SSL at: <https://www.ssl.com/article/ssl-tls-handshake-overview/>
  - **Note**: Note the graphic in particular.

- Define **cipher suite**.
  - **Solution**: A cipher suite is a set of standardized cryptographic tools that clients and servers can avail themselves of for the TLS handshake and encryption of subsequent messages.

- Define **pre-master key**. What is its role in the TLS handshake?
  - **Solution**: The pre-master key is a special key, generated by the client, which _both_ the client _and_ the server use to create a shared secret key, which is used to encrypt later messages.

- Is the pre-master key used to encrypt?
  - **Solution**: No. The pre-master key is used to generate the shared secret key, _not_ to encrypt.
  - **Note**: The "pre-master key" is often a random number. To avoid ambiguity with encryption keys, which are completely different, I prefer the term "pre-master _secret_."

- Compare the TLS handshake to the hybrid process you outlined above. What are the key differences?
  - **Solution**: The TLS handshake involves a pre-master secret, used to generate the symmetric key.
